---
layout: post
title:  "Privacy"
date:   2015-10-03 20:37:53 +0800
author: Joe Marion
---

In today's tech world privacy and security go hand in hand to casual computer users. There has been a significant increase in concern of people's privacy lately, which is understandable if you consider how much of your information is really tracked online (mostly for "advertising"). The problem this fairly new concern causes is a large number of "average" online users are not well educated on how to keep their privacy and security safe online.

<!--more-->

The problem that this causes is that it creates two groups of misinformed users. One spectrum is the user that thinks that nothing will ever happen to them. They visit every site, use the same password for everything, download the first link they can see of what they're looking for, etc. This group of people is the most prone to getting "cyber-attacked" and creates a smaller group of people who will begin to think that the internet is malicious and nothing is safe.

The second group of people is on the other side of the spectrum. Often it is people that know or have heard of people from the first group who have lost "everything" because of the internet. This group typically will avoid using technology at all costs. For example, I have family that fits in this category. They could make their business digital and spend maybe 30 minutes to an hour online once a month to manage their expenses, but chooses to do everything on paper. This creates hours a week of work because they are afraid to put any personal information online.

Now, not everyone fits in one of the categories, but everyone falls somewhere within that spectrum. The solution? More education. There needs to be more education. After researching online, most of the resources made available is for using the computers and very basic knowledge to get people up and running. There aren't as many cyber-awareness courses that are free to everyday users that aren't biased or some other ploy to get misinformed users to buy a product.

Yes, there are sites that say


* Use better passwords
* Keep your applications updated
* Go online with a secure browswer


But what is lacking is the WHY people are doing that. Without the why assumptions are made. If I am told that I need specialized security software and a secure browser to use the internet, the assumption is that the internet is not safe and I need to protect myself.

People's foundation for computer security needs to be improved. Schools should focus more on showing students what they should be looking for to protect themselves and common indicators for malicious sites/etc. online. This would be more beneficial instead of preaching that they need to protect themselves because it's 'bad'. If the education is ingrained into people from an early age, recognizing malicious and foul intent within websites should become a second nature.

Too many times I have been given advices that is absurd in regards to online security due to people who were miseducated on how to remain safe and still effectively use the internet. If you are still downloading music using Limewire.. it may be time to reconsider your knowledge on online security.